Hi, everyone.
In this election, we will be creating our circles on the on the screen.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come on top of our game loop and in here I'm going to say I'm
going to create the I'm going to call it the balls array.
Right, and first off, let's go ahead and let's declare that as an empty threat.
I'm just going to say Iraq equals an empty array and then we are going to iterate over that.
Right.
And we are going to populated.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say four letters are equal to zero.
So the eye or the loop variable is going to start from zero.
And how many times it should iterate?
It should iterate 500 times.
So I want to create 500 circles.
I want wanted to be 500 times.
And each time we are going to incremented by one.
So first things first.
Let's create the radius of a circle.
The radius of the circle is going to be 30.
The second thing is going to be we are going to randomize the exposition.
So I'm going to say math dot random.
And because we want to randomize the the exposition within the canvas canvases with so I'm going to
say canvas element done with now here is where where we implement that second part of the detection,
collision detection, and that is whenever we create the circles.
You know what?
I'm not going to implemented as of now.
I'm going to implement it later so you can really see what I mean by, like, circles not being created
off the canvas originally.
So let's change this to the Y.
The Y position should be within the canvas height.
Right.
And then I'm going to create the X velocity.
So X V is going to be our random number.
So random function.
Now I think it was the previous project.
I'm not really sure about that, where we talked about some sort of.
Like having to come up with a kind of a random sine function, and for that, if we had like evalu which
was greater than zero point five, I think it was the stars.
I'm not really sure about that.
You guys could go ahead and check that out and you know what I mean.
If you have completed those projects, like if the value was above point five, we would return in a
positive sign.
And if it was less than that, we would return a negative sign in this lecture.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to come up with another way of doing that and I'm going to say minus
zero point five.
And I'm going to grab this entire thing.
OK, and I'm going to add on plus sorry times to so what is this going to give me?
So the highest number that the math that random is going to give me is one.
So one minus zero point five, we get a positive number, right.
Times two.
And what is this, the smallest number that this matter random is going to give us?
And that is going to be zero zero zero oops.
So zero minus zero point five, we get a negative number, a negative sign and that is going to give
us a negative sign.
So each time we refresh the page, one of our balls is going to be moving towards the positive direction
with a positive velocity and the other ball is going to be towards the negative direction with a negative
velocity.
That's how we randomize velocity and also the velocity direction.
It's very simple.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab our red color and I'm going to say math dot random.
So we are going to say math are random times 255.
Right.
And I'm going to say I'm going to call math that seal on this because math that seal what it is going
to give us is going to give us the highest number.
Whenever we are rounding up, we are going to give us the highest number.
So if we say one point, if the math are random, is going to give us zero point nine, we are always
going to get one.
So one times 255, we will determine what the range for our color is going to be.
The same thing is going to go for the green.
And let's right green here and also blue.
So finally, what I want to do is I want to grab all of these because we do have our constructor right
here and I want to instantiate this run balls and I want to push all them here so we can actually access
these this keywords that this keywords in here.
So we cannot access them because they don't have any value.
So let's provide them with value.
And I'm going to say here, I'm going to grab our balls are right and I'm going to say dot push.
What do we want to push to that array?
We want to push the an instantiation of the run balls class.
And the exposition is going to be the exposition that we have provided here, and then we have the wife
position, we have the X velocity, the Y velocity, we have our radius, we have our the red color,
the green color and the blue color.
So let's save it.
And now what I want what I have to do is I need to call I need to grab this array and I need to update
it within this made balls as well.
That's when we can actually see them.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a for a loop.
And I'm going to say for Alat Kay, this time, I'm going to grab Kay and I'm going to say it should
be equal to zero at first and then case should go all the way to balls, a red dot length.
So we have created all four circles within this array.
Now we need to iterate over this array and each in each iteration, you know that this request animation
frame is going to run this function 60 times for one second.
So in each iteration, we are going to print one circle to the screen.
It is going to happen so fast that we should not see any lagging.
So what do we want to do?
We want to grab our balls array.
And from there, this is going to iterate over each of these each of the items within that ball.
And then we are going to update our advance function room to call that function here as well.
So let's say that let's come here.
Why we do not see anything and then we log that and let me go to the console if there are any errors
there.
OK, so let's come to the we don't have any errors there, and so we have what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to go ahead and I'm going to cancel this.
All right.
So is there anything wrong there?
So I was right.
Let's get to the console.
There we go.
So you can see that we have 500 different.
And if I bring this up and if I open this, you can see that in each of these we have a run balls,
constructor or class, and it is going to have a different blue color, a different blue color, green
radius, red white exposition, the velocity, the Y position, the velocity, everything.
Every time it is going to be different.
Right.
And.
Let's see what's happening here.
All right, so I'm going to come here, we have called our update balance here and this drawer balance,
this is responsible for drawing that.
And the way that I'm looking at it is we have not called it.
So I'm going to call that within this update balance function.
So I'm going to say this dot draw, boss.
And let's call it let's save it and there we go.
Here are our circles.
I'm just going to refresh the page.
You can see that the radius, the radar is really big and there is still seems to be some problem here.
Now, you can see that, for example, if we track one ball, for example, this this green ball, I
think this is green or this orange one.
You can see when it hits the page, the side of the page, it bounces off and there it goes.
It goes up this light orange and it should bounce off this as well.
It did bounce off and it is coming down.
We are going to track trace this ball.
There it is.
There we go.
Come on.
Come on, come on.
It should bounce off this edge as well.
So there we go, it should bounce off of it.
It bounced off and finally the left side, it is going there.
So this is the ball that we are tracking and there we go so that the collision detection for bouncing
off, that is complete.
But you can see that like, for example, this dark blue one, it is caught in the bottom edge.
This is caught in the top edge.
The these these three balls that have been caught in the left.
These a lot of them have been caught on.
Right.
We need to come.
We need to accommodate for those as well.
So I just wanted to show you that.
And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to do that logic.
So what we are going to do is for the right side, we need to subtract the whole diameter of that circle
from the canvas width so the circle doesn't even go like one pixel off that the edge of the screen and
the diameter of any circle is going to be radius.
Time to see if I know you can see that there is no circle being cut in the right side of the screen.
Right.
So what are the left side of the screen?
We know that the left side of the screen is going to be zero.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add on the radius to this and it is going to take care of the
right side of the sorry, the left side of the screen.
And then you can see there are inner circles I cut in there as well.
So the same thing is going to go for the height.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to copy that.
Pasted right here, and I'm going to change this to ijtihad it and it should work.
So basically what we did was for the positive direction we subtracted the entire diameter and we added
the radius because for the negative direction, we need to add on the radius.
You remember that in here, that if I add if I subtract the radius from the X position or if I add the
radius to the zero, this the collision detection is still going to work.
Because if I move this argument to this side of this inequality in mathematics, this the sign of it
is going to change to positive.
So minus this, the radius is going to be zero plus this radius.
So if you want if we want to detect the collision on the negative side of the screen, which is left
in top, we only have to add added on to the zero.
That's what we did.
We added on to that.
And now you can see that all of our circles are bouncing off, and in the time of creating the circles,
each time we refresh the page, we create the circus.
They will be created within the country within the constraints of this canvas.
And with this, our lecturer comes to an end.
See you guys in the next one.